In this lecture you're going to learn how to generate random values in python,
so on the top we import a random module. This module
has a method called random that generates a random value called
0 and 1. So let's print that.
And see the result. So we get a floating point number. Everytime
we run this program, we get a different value. Now,
you also have another method rand int
that generates a random integer between 2 numbers, lets say 1,
and 10. So, we get 10,
and now we get 2, 8, and so on. We have another
super useful method called choice, that takes an array
let's say an array of numbers and randomly picks one of the
numbers in this array. So let's run this program we get
3 now we get 2, 3, 4,
and so on. Now we have a similar method, choices,
that selects multiple values from this array. So
here as the second argument after this array, we need to supply keyword
argument that is k, we set it to 2,
and this returns 2 random items,
from our original array. Now with this choice of method we can generate
a random password. Let me show you. Now duplicate this line,
set k to 4, let's say you want a
password of 4 characters. Now instead of an array.
We should pass a string. So abcdefg
hi whatever basically we can pass any sequence to this
method, and it will take 4 items from that sequence.
Now, when we run this program, we get
an array of 4 characters picked from this string here.
Lets run the program one more time, now we get different characters,
there you go. So to generate the password we should
combine all these items in this array into a string,
to do that, we create an empty string and call
the joint method on it, and this will join all the items
in an array using an empty string as a separator. So
when we run the program, we get a string instead of an array.
Now if we use a comma in the string, that comma will be used
as the separator when joining the items of this array. So let's
run the program one more time, see what we get? We didn't want it.
We want an empty string. And the only issue we have here
is the limited choice of characters. Now one way is to type all the
lower case and upper case as well as digits, but that is tedious, there is
a better way. You have this string module, let's import that,
this module has a few interesting
attributes, let's print string.
ascii letters. This returns a
string that includes all the lower and upper case letters.
We also have ascii lower case, upper case, as well as
digits. Take a look, so we get all the numbers
from 0 to 9. Now instead of passing
a string here, we can pass string
.ascii letters, plus string
.digits. So, let's run the program one more time,
and here's our random password.
Every time we run this program, we get a different password.
We also have another useful method for shuffling an array. So let's say
we have an array of numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4,
we can call random.shuffle and pass the
array here. Now when we get this,
the order of these items are randomly changed. So let's
run the program, we get 4, 1, 3, 2. Let's run it again we get
2, 1, 3, 4. So this is how we can generate random values in python.